1. Is command-The ls command is commonly used to identify the files and directories in the working directory.

2. pwd command-The pwd command is mostly used to print the current working directory on your terminal.

3. mkdir command-This mkdir command allows you to create fresh directories in the terminal itself.

4. cd command-The cd command is used to navigate between directories.

5. rmdir command-The rmdir command is used to delete permanently an empty directory.

6. cp command-The cp command of Linux is equivalent to copy-paste and cut-paste in Windows. 

7. mv command-The mv command is generally used for renaming the files in Linux.

8. rm command-rm command in Linux is generally used to delete the files created in the directory. 

9. locate command-The locate command is generally used to locate the files in the database.

10. touch command-The touch command creates an empty file when put in the terminal in this format as touch <file name> 

11. cat command-The cat command is the simplest command to use when you want to see the contents of a particular file.

12. clear command-The clear command is a standard command to clear the terminal screen.

13. grep command-The grep command is used to find a specific string in a series of outputs. For example, if you want to find a string in a file, you can use the syntax: <Any command with output> | grep “<string to find> “

14.echo command-echo command in Linux is specially used to print something in the terminal

15. wget command-The wget command in the Linux command line allows you to download files from the internet. It runs in the background and does not interfere with other processes.

16. whoami command-The whoami command provides basic information that is extremely useful when working on multiple systems. In general, if you are working with a single computer, you will not require it as frequently as a network administrator.

17. sort command-The sort command is used generally to sort the output of the file. Let’s use the command and see the output.

18. cal command-The cal command is not the most famous command in the terminal but it functions to view the calendar for a particular month in the terminal. Let’s see how this works.

19. df command-df command in Linux gets the details of the file system.

20. wc command-wc command in Linux indicates the number of words, characters, lines, etc using a set of options. 

wc -w shows the number of words
wc -l shows the number of lines
wc -m shows the number of characters present in a file